jerome.md, before:

# Tracing the Scribal Tradition of Jerome's *Chronicle* #

## Claude Hanley and Stephanie Neville

***


# The *Chronicle*

- First page of the preface in the Geneva 49 manuscript of the Chronicle

![Preface Gen49](prefgen49.jpg)

***

# Geneva 49

![Bifolio Image of the Geneva 49](gen49.jpg)


***

# St. Gallen 298

![Bifolio Image of the St. Gallen 298](stgallen298.jpg)

***

# Bern 219

![Bifolio Image of the Bern 219](bern219.jpg)

***

# Editing the Manuscripts

![Image of a line from Geneva 49](linegen49.jpg)

![XML edited text of the same line](xmlgen49.jpg)

![XML Author mode of the edited line](authormodegen49.jpg)
--------

# Columns: Geneva 49 vs. CodVad 298

![Geneva 49](columnsgen49.jpg)

![St. Gallen 298](columnsstgallen298.jpg)

***

# Romulus's Reign

- First page of the preface in the Geneva 49 manuscript of the Chronicle
![Romulus’ reign in the Geneva 49](romulusgen49.jpg)

![End of Romulus' Reign in the Geneva 49](romendgen49.jpg)

- Note "Annis XXXVIII" as the last year of Romulus' reign
![ Romulus' Reign in St. Gallen.](romulusstgallen298.jpg)

![End of Romulus' reign in St. Gallen](romendsstgallen298.jpg)

***

# The Birth of Christ
- Gen 49: Illustrated, major event dominates the page.
![The Nativity in Gen. 49](jesusgen49.jpg)

- St. Gallen: Text color changes to highlight the event, but otherwise it is not empasized.
![The Nativity in St. Gallen](jesusstgallen298.jpg)

***

# Fall of Kingdoms

-Gen 49: "Lydorum Regnum Defecit." ends the column.
-St. Gallen: The Column simply stops.

![Fall of the Lydians](lydiansgen49.jpg)

- Gen 49: As with the Lydians, the scribe highlights the fact that the Medes have fallen.
- St. Gallen: Downfall of the Medes downfall is not highlighted, merely mentioned.

![Fall of the Medes in Geneva 49](medesgen49.jpg)

![Fall of the Medes in St. Gallen](medesstgallen298.jpg)

***

# First Olympiad

-In the Egyptian Column during which the First Olympiad occurs, the fourth year of the reign of Bocchoris repeats.

![Egyptian Column, 1st Olympiad, St. Gallen](1stolympiadstgallen298.jpg)



***

# *Aliter*: Referencing Different Sources?

- Bern 219: Note the lack of alternate dating.
![First Olympiad in the Bern 219](aliter-1.jpg) ![First Olympiad in the Bern 219 Close-up](aliter-4.jpg)

- St. Gallen: Note that the main date is CCCCVI, with CCCCV as alternate.
![First Olympiad in St. Gallen](aliter-2.jpg) ![First Olympiad in St. Gallen Close-up](aliter-5.jpg)

-Gen 49: Note that the main date is CCCCV, with CCCCVI as alternate.
![First Olympiad in Geneva 49](aliter-3.jpg) ![First Olympiad in Geneva 49 Close-up](aliter-6.jpg)

***

# Geneva 49: Scribe and Source

- The scribe writes "superfluu(m). si ita erat i(n) exemplari" when shifting the Macedonian column in the middle of the page.
![Gen 49 Notation of Courses](sourcegen49.jpg)



***

# In Conclusion

- Unique stylistic elements
- References to other sources
- Better sense of the historiography of the scribal tradition

***

Commit message:

Reserve level-1 header for title page

jerome.md, after:

# Tracing the Scribal Tradition of Jerome's *Chronicle* #

## Claude Hanley and Stephanie Neville

***


## The *Chronicle*

Preface in the Geneva 49 manuscript of the *Chronicle*

![Preface Gen49](prefgen49.jpg)

***

## Geneva 49

![Bifolio Image of the Geneva 49](gen49.jpg)


***

## St. Gallen 298

![Bifolio Image of the St. Gallen 298](stgallen298.jpg)

***

## Bern 219

![Bifolio Image of the Bern 219](bern219.jpg)

***

## Editing the Manuscripts

Compare:

- image 
- XML text
- Readable "author view"

*** 

![Image of a line from Geneva 49](linegen49.jpg)

![XML edited text of the same line](xmlgen49.jpg)

![XML Author mode of the edited line](authormodegen49.jpg)

***



## Columns: Geneva 49 vs. CodVad 298

![Geneva 49](columnsgen49.jpg)

![St. Gallen 298](columnsstgallen298.jpg)

***

## Romulus's Reign

- First page of the preface in the Geneva 49 manuscript of the Chronicle
![Romulus’ reign in the Geneva 49](romulusgen49.jpg)

![End of Romulus' Reign in the Geneva 49](romendgen49.jpg)

- Note "Annis XXXVIII" as the last year of Romulus' reign
![ Romulus' Reign in St. Gallen.](romulusstgallen298.jpg)

![End of Romulus' reign in St. Gallen](romendsstgallen298.jpg)

***

## The Birth of Christ
- Gen 49: Illustrated, major event dominates the page.
![The Nativity in Gen. 49](jesusgen49.jpg)

- St. Gallen: Text color changes to highlight the event, but otherwise it is not empasized.
![The Nativity in St. Gallen](jesusstgallen298.jpg)

***

## Fall of Kingdoms

-Gen 49: "Lydorum Regnum Defecit." ends the column.
-St. Gallen: The Column simply stops.

![Fall of the Lydians](lydiansgen49.jpg)

- Gen 49: As with the Lydians, the scribe highlights the fact that the Medes have fallen.
- St. Gallen: Downfall of the Medes downfall is not highlighted, merely mentioned.

![Fall of the Medes in Geneva 49](medesgen49.jpg)

![Fall of the Medes in St. Gallen](medesstgallen298.jpg)

***

## First Olympiad

-In the Egyptian Column during which the First Olympiad occurs, the fourth year of the reign of Bocchoris repeats.

![Egyptian Column, 1st Olympiad, St. Gallen](1stolympiadstgallen298.jpg)



***

## *Aliter*: Referencing Different Sources?

- Bern 219: Note the lack of alternate dating.
![First Olympiad in the Bern 219](aliter-1.jpg) ![First Olympiad in the Bern 219 Close-up](aliter-4.jpg)

- St. Gallen: Note that the main date is CCCCVI, with CCCCV as alternate.
![First Olympiad in St. Gallen](aliter-2.jpg) ![First Olympiad in St. Gallen Close-up](aliter-5.jpg)

-Gen 49: Note that the main date is CCCCV, with CCCCVI as alternate.
![First Olympiad in Geneva 49](aliter-3.jpg) ![First Olympiad in Geneva 49 Close-up](aliter-6.jpg)

***

## Geneva 49: Scribe and Source

- The scribe writes "superfluu(m). si ita erat i(n) exemplari" when shifting the Macedonian column in the middle of the page.
![Gen 49 Notation of Courses](sourcegen49.jpg)



***

## Conclusions

- Unique stylistic elements
- References to other sources
- Better sense of the historiography of the scribal tradition

***
